CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 122105Z OCT 23 MID120000533684U

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 247/23

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/CNO//

SUBJ/CNO BIRTHDAY MESSAGE TO THE FLEET//

1.  Team Navy, this year we celebrate 248 years of Power, Presence, and 
Protection, which highlights the Navy's historical and long-standing 
commitment to being forward deployed, highly trained, and dedicated to 
defending American interests at sea, on land, and in the sky.

2.  We are as critical to our Nation today as we were on October 13, 1775.
From our beginnings with John Paul Jones leading tall ships to carry the 
Revolutionary War to enemy waters, to Old Ironsides going head-to-head in 
pitched battle in the War of 1812; from Admiral Farragut storming through 
minefields in Mobile Bay, to the birth of naval aviation in 1911 by Eugene 
Ely; and from Admiral Nimitz sweeping across the Pacific with the largest 
fleet in the history of the world, to Admiral Rickover building the world's 
premier nuclear force, our Navy has always adapted and delivered warfighting 
advantage to our Nation. For generations, we have ensured American influence 
across the world, expanded economic opportunities for the American people, 
and safeguarded global security and prosperity.

3.  Today, like every day for the last 248 years, our Navy-Marine Corps team 
is operating forward, steaming alongside our allies and partners in faraway 
waters and preserving peace through strength. They respond on a moment's 
notice to unfolding crises and stand the watch around the world and around 
the clock, providing options, flexibility, and decision space to our Nation's 
leaders.
And they operate from the seabed to space so the world can live free and 
benefit from the rules based international order. There is no doubt that we 
are the world's most powerful Navy. Take pride in who we are and what we do.

4.  As we look into the future and the decisive decade ahead, I cannot 
imagine a better team - both uniformed and civilian - to carry forward this 
proud legacy, anchored by our core values of honor, courage, and commitment. 
Time and time again, our Sailors and civilians have risen to the challenge of 
the moment.
I have every confidence you will do it again.

5.  Lastly, we could not fulfill the Navy's mission without the love and 
support of our families and support network. Please relay my thanks to them 
for their steadfast devotion and sacrifice. They are the glue that keeps the 
Navy together.

6.  I am incredibly proud of each Sailor, civilian, and family member on this 
team.

7.  MCPON and I wish you a Happy 248th Birthday, Shipmates. See you in the 
Fleet.

8.  Released by ADM L. M. Franchetti, Acting Chief of Naval Operations.//

BT
#0001
NNNN

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

